adding index phrases mapping parameter docs (#9538)
opensearch-project/documentation-website: _field-types/mapping-parameters/index-phrases.md

---
layout: default
title: Index phrases
parent: Mapping parameters
grand_parent: Mapping and field types
nav_order: 80
has_children: false
has_toc: false
---

# Index phrases

> The `index_phrases` mapping parameter determines whether a field’s text is additionally processed to generate phrase tokens. When enabled, the system creates extra tokens that represent consecutive word sequences. This can significantly improve the performance and accuracy of phrase queries. However, it also increases the index size and the time needed to index documents.

Reviewer: `consecutive word sequences`

Can we call out that it is just 2 consecutive words? The javadoc here helps understand how tokens are generated.

https://github.com/apache/lucene/blob/ccc8f7e245e76a1c3974770e234fa03d8a905316/lucene/analysis/common/src/java/org/apache/lucene/analysis/shingle/FixedShingleFilter.java#L37C7-L38C98

Author: @mgodwan thank you for the review, I've made changes, could you please review?

---
layout: default
title: Index phrases
parent: Mapping parameters
grand_parent: Mapping and field types
nav_order: 80
has_children: false
has_toc: false
---

# Index phrases

> The `index_phrases` mapping parameter determines whether a field’s text is additionally processed to generate phrase tokens. When enabled, the system creates extra tokens representing sequences of exactly two consecutive words (`bigrams`). This can significantly improve the performance and accuracy of phrase queries. However, it also increases the index size and the time needed to index documents.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `index_phrases` mapping parameter determines whether a field's text is additionally processed to generate phrase tokens. When enabled, the system creates extra tokens representing sequences of exactly two consecutive words (_bigrams_). This can significantly improve the performance and accuracy of phrase queries. However, it also increases the index size and the time needed to index documents.
```

> By default, `index_phrases` is set to `false`, to maintain a leaner index and faster document ingestion.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
By default, `index_phrases` is set to `false` to maintain a leaner index and faster document ingestion.
```

## Enabling index phrases on a field

> The following example creates an index named `blog` where the `content` field is configured with `index_phrases`:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following example creates an index named `blog` in which the `content` field is configured with `index_phrases`:
```

```json
PUT /blog
{
  "mappings": {
    "properties": {
      "content": {
        "type": "text",
        "index_phrases": true
      }
    }
  }
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

> Index a document using the following command:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Index a document using the following request:
```

```json
PUT /blog/_doc/1
{
  "content": "The slow green turtle swims past the whale"
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

Perform a `match_phrase` query using the following search request:

```json
POST /blog/_search
{
  "query": {
    "match_phrase": {
      "content": "slow green"
    }
  }
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

The query returns the stored document:

```json
{
  "took": 25,
  "timed_out": false,
  "_shards": {
    "total": 1,
    "successful": 1,
    "skipped": 0,
    "failed": 0
  },
  "hits": {
    "total": {
      "value": 1,
      "relation": "eq"
    },
    "max_score": 0.5753642,
    "hits": [
      {
        "_index": "blog",
        "_id": "1",
        "_score": 0.5753642,
        "_source": {
          "content": "The slow green turtle swims past the whale"
        }
      }
    ]
  }
}
```

> Although the returned hit is possible without using `index_phrases` mapping parameter, using this parameter ensures that the query:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Although the same hit is returned when you don't provide the `index_phrases` mapping parameter, using this parameter ensures that the query performs as follows:
```

- Uses the `.index_phrases` field internally.

> - Matches pre-tokenized `bigrams` such as "slow green", "green turtle", "turtle swims".

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Matches pre-tokenized bigrams such as "slow green", "green turtle", "turtle swims".
```
